# Please tell us all about yourself. Talk to us about both your childhood and adult years.  Where you grew up, a little about parents/siblings, schooling, jobs, relationships, etc.  The more we know about you, the better.  This allows us to intelligently speak with the prosecutor about you during negotiations.

I'm from Southern Oregon originally. I was born in our own home in medford, where we lived for a year before moving to a cabin in the Upper Applegate, far out in the dry scrub-oak mountains. 

I was in and out of the school system until highschool. I went to school until the start of 3rd grade, when I caught whooping cough, missing a few weeks. My mom decided not to put me back in and to homeschool me instead. 
Being homeschooled was a mixed experience. I lost contact with my peer group from second grade. I spent a lot of time by myself. I read voraciously. I had a handful of friends that I saw sporadically. I was miles away from all of them. meetings with my peers had to be orchestrated by parents, and were never spontaneous. 

I used to walk around the "backwoods," which was government wildlands, by myself. I lost hours exploring manzanita groves and buckbrush thickets and doing my best not to get caught in a maze of poison oak. 

Some years I was enrolled in a primitive skills class. I learned how to start a fire with a bow drill, how to skin a squirrel, and how to sleep in the woods without freezing to death. My best friends were in this class, too. I liked the regular contact, seeing people I knew every week. 

My dad worked in Ashland, an hour drive from where we lived, as a solar technician. I didn't see him very much during the week. I spent more time with my mom. She declined to leave me at home for errands, and usually there was nobody around to watch me, so I came with her for almost everything. I spent many hours in the back of the car, reading. Books filled most of my waking hours. 

I lived in a fantasy realm. I lacked experience with the real world, spending most of my days at home or in the car with the same people. My social circle was very small. I began to construct a model of the world based on the fiction and nonfiction that I consumed. I lived vicariously. My world was built on fictional archetypes and tropes and overwrought dialogue. It didn't matter how wrong my model was. I rarely came into contact with reality.

If I wasn't reading, I was probably playing music. My parents started renting a violin for me when I was seven or eight. I took lessons every week for most of elementary school and middle school. Some years there were lessons, some years there were not. I loved music, but I hated being told what to do. I was told to play music, and that posed a conundrum. I always practiced less often than I was supposed to. Despite lacking practice hours, I improved rapidly. My teacher said I had potential, which felt good, but I never practiced enough to live up to it. I tried playing at a couple farmer's markets, which was extremely profitable and also terrifying. I was terrified of performing in front of an audience.


My sister was born around the same time that I got my first violin. I had this idea from my books that the older sibling was supposed to resent the younger, so I hated her passionately and for no discernable reason other than the fact of her existence. I disliked her even more for the fact that my mother, who was my only company during most of the week, was now preoccupied with somebody else. 

Around the time I would have been in middle school, we moved to ashland so my dad could be closer to his work and my mom could complete her dream of owning a horse barn. We lived there for a year or so. I started going to a homeschool group a few days out of the week. It wasn't clear to me why, because little in the way of schooling happened there, but my mom moved in mysterious ways (always seeking some greater good that was never clear to me) and she was in charge of my education. 

I became seriously interested in logic and rationality. For some reason, I hated all things subjective and, especially, all things spiritual and above all love, which I abhorred as a worthless chemical reaction at best and an outright myth at worst. I didn't really believe that love existed, mostly because I had never felt it. Or so I believed. I didn't like emotions. I wanted to become a being of pure logic. Like a computer. I did my best not to feel things. It worked. I cut myself off from emotions as best I could.
 
I read books on human biases and logical fallacies. I wallowed in nihilism. I can only imagine how insufferable I must have been. 

I skimmed buddhist thought and decided that desire was suffering. I became militantly anti-natalist, since I believed that there was no afterlife, no divine plan, and life was, on balance, an empty, confusing, negative experience. So, I reasoned, better never to have existed at all, since you have everything to lose and nothing to gain. I resented my parents as moral failures for creating me and dooming me to suffer.

I took online classes in 7th and 8th grade. They consisted of hours of Zoom meetings. The classes were easy and didn't demand much more than attending and following instructions. We wrote fiction, painted, and occaisionally juggled. We learned how to juggle from a man whose Zoom username was "Funny Frank." I made one friend and I spent hours on zoom calls playing games with him after school. He disappeared after the first year of online classes. As I approached high school I began to worry that I had fallen behind. It seemed to me that I had accomplished very little. My model of the world, based entirely on the fiction that I had read, told me that high school was a scary and difficult place to be and that I was entirely unprepared for the academic challenge. I envisioned something along the lines of Harry Potter mixed with Lord of the Flies.

After a year or so of living in Ashland, my parents' marriage began to collapse. They had seemed tense around each other for a while. I had noticed it but not really known why or what exactly was happening. Then, suddenly, something gave way and they starting fighting in plain sight. I did my best to pretend that it wasn't happening. 

My mom took my sister and me to Lopez Island in 2018. I made a few friends there, despite being terminally shy and self-conscious and largely lacking social skills that I might have learned from going to a real school.

I visited Spring Street International School while I was in the islands. My mom liked Spring Street because it shared her humanistic values. I liked it because it seemed safe. Much safer than going to public school, which my fiction had demonized somewhat. Any sort of school held a mythic terror for me, but if I had to go to a high school, I thought it should be spring street. We 

My fears were mostly unfounded. Despite my patchy previous education missing semesters worth of standard curriculum, freshman year was easy. Lots of work, hours of work, many more than I was used to, but I got As in all of my classes except my math class, where I was placed a grade above where I should have been. 

Academically I was fine, but I felt like I didn't belong at school. I was abnormally small for my age, and I looked like I was still in grade school. I had one friend, Nico, an 8th grader who lived on the same island as me, but he bullied me constantly over the traits I was most self-conscious about. Still I clung to him.  I thought it was better to have him than nothing at all.

I began to spend a lot of time online. I was especially drawn to anonymous forums filled with disaffected young men. They seemed self-conscious in all the ways that I was, too. I didn't realize it at the time, but I was absorbing potent alt-right propaganda.

Freshman year came and went. I made a new friend, Jasper, who seemed like the nicest person in the world to me. He was soft in manner and very kind. We started playing games together, meeting online, and talking for hours. He's still one of my best friends.

At the beginning of sophomore year, my mom ran out of money to pay for private school. I was thrown into public school at Lopez. Online classes again. This was at the beginning of the pandemic. Everything was a mess. Nobody really knew how to adapt to the new way of doing things. Classes over Zoom were nothing new to me, and they should have been easy, but I found that I didn't respect my teachers, most of whom seemed basically incompetent at their jobs. Spring street I had been able to justify to myself as time well spent, since it had a reputation for academic excellence (and a 100% college acceptance rate), but I found that I couldn't overlook the shortcomings at my public school. I fell behind. I saw Nico less and less. I didn't make a single friend that year. I spent more and more time online. My mom worried that I was depressed. I hadn't been keeping up with my old friends I had made when we first came to Lopez island. I was certainly depressed, but I wasn't interested in talking to them. I had become so deeply embedded in online subculture that I had lost much of what I had in common with the people that would have been my friends.

Junior year was the only year of high school that was completely in person. I had a full schedule of classes, instead of the half schedule the state had improvised for sophomore year. I had even less respect for my teachers this year than the last. I felt deeply that I could be using my time more efficiently and learning more. It stung to be locked down for seven hours of wasted time every day. 

I started to make friends and meet them after school. It felt good. I was mostly happy. It was a new thing to me, to have a group of friends. Before this I rarely saw more than one person at a time.

I took up meditation in freshman year, but I quit during the summer. As junior year drew to a close, I picked it back up with the intention of seriously exploring the contents of my mind. In particular I was drawn to a tradition called metta- 'lovingkindness' meditation. As I practiced, I began to rediscover what love felt like. I realized that I had forgotten a lot of emotions. I extended more love to my friends and family. I became more patient. I began to enjoy living again. I cried more and laughed more. Sometimes I felt like laughing for no reason at all except the joy of existing. I really like being alive, these days.

I decided I was going to graduate early. I took college courses online on top of my full schedule. My counselor said I could graduate a year early. 

I finished the year and my college courses and my high school classes. There was no word from the school about my graduating, but I assumed they would get back to me with something about a diploma. The summer passesd on by. I worked as a plumber's apprentice. I was surprised to discover that I loved the long days of hard work. I loved building things and working with my hands. Nevertheless, I decided to stay in school and get a college degree.

The school year started, and still there was nothing from the school. Then, halfway through the first month of school, I got an email from my advisor. I was not done. I was still missing requirements to graduate- they had been overlooked. I was incensed. They gave me some online classes that week. 

The next month, I met a girl named Tasha at a concert on San Juan island.










